# Markdown editor environment for vscode

This template provides a [markdown](https://hiltmon.com/blog/2012/02/20/the-markdown-mindset/) editor environment for vscode. Use it to compose documents in `md` format and then convert to `docx`, `html`, or `pdf` using the `vscode-pandoc` extension. The setup mainly follows [this tutorial](https://thisdavej.com/build-an-amazing-markdown-editor-using-visual-studio-code-and-pandoc/).

## Example

This example assumes that you have forked this template and (optionally) cloned it to your local environment. If not, see [Setup](#setup) below. Once you have done that, you can create a new local `md` editor environment that will also exist as a public repo on your github.com account in one line. First, navigate to the local directory where you want to create your new repo, just as though you were cloning a remote repo. Then try:

`>> gh repo create <your-new-repo> --public --template=<your-github-username>/<this-repo>`

So long as you have the `gh` [cli installed](https://cli.github.com), that one-liner should clone this template as it exists on your github.com account into `<your-new-repo>` in your local environment and create an upstream public remote on your github.com account.

Once you have a working copy of this template, feel free to use your Git hooks prowess to circumvent the `gh`-based method above anytime you need to compose a new set of Readme's, take notes on a workflow, review a manuscript, write a letter, or anything else you would do in a `md` editor, without ever leaving your `vscode` environment (or opening Word).

## Setup

- Fork or clone this repo  
- Install pandoc [however you want](https://pandoc.org/installing.html)
- Install vscode-pandoc extension
  
    - Press F1 to open the VS Code Command Palette
    - Type ext install vscode-pandoc and press enter to find the extension
    - Press Enter or click the cloud icon to install it (I used the one by Doug Finke)
    - Restart Visual Studio Code if prompted

- Install markdown linter

    - Press F1 to open the VS Code Command Palette
    - Type ext install markdownlint and press enter to find the extension
    - Press Enter or click the cloud icon to install it
    - Restart Visual Studio Code if prompted

- Edit the `css/`, `.markdownlint.json`, and `.vscode/settings.json` files to your liking. I followed the tutorial and used [this css style sheet](https://benjam.info/panam/styling.css) from [here](https://benjam.info/panam/) as a starting point and then changed the code font color to black and removed the italics for level 2 subheading.

- Test it out using `test.md` (see next section).

- Optional: let vscode know to render your md preview using your preferred css style by adding this to `settings.json`, either in the Workspace settings (as it is in this repo) or in your User settings:

    ```json
    "markdown.styles": [
        "css/style.css"
    ],
    ```

- Note: the vscode preview rendered code with yellow font so I added a color attribute to the code container in style.css.

## Usage

Place cursor anywhere in an open md file, press `command+k` (then release), then press `p`, and options to convert the md file to docx/html/pdf should appear in the vscode command palette. The converted file is saved in the same directory as the `md` file.

Didn't work? Did you press `command+k` and then release before pressing `p`?

Note: the preview generated by vscode may differ from the html version. I suggest rendering the html before fiddling with the stylesheet.

## More

Pandoc enables the conversion md to html, docx, pdf, etc. It must be installed and accessible to the vscode python interpreter.

The markdown helper extension was recommended in the [tutorial](https://thisdavej.com/build-an-amazing-markdown-editor-using-visual-studio-code-and-pandoc/) because it makes tables easier, but I chose not to install it because reviews are poor. It seems to be outdated. Instead I installed the highest rated extension Markdown All in One. I did not investigate options to integrate that extension with this environment.

Install Code Spell Check extension or similar.

`/markdownlint.json` enables us to customize the rules used by the markdownlint extension.  
`/css/style.css` is used by html generated by pandoc.  
`/.vscode/settings.json` is the workspace version of the global vscode settings.json file. It was essential to change the `pandoc.pdfOptString` to achieve acceptable pdf rendering.   
`/.vscode/extensions.json` I think this was auto generated by the `vscode-pandoc` extension.  

[also see this](https://pierrepaci.medium.com/enhance-your-markdown-experience-using-vscode-3caf489888b8)